---
title: "2020 strikes again!"
date: 2020-10-21 00:00:00
description: The immediate aftermath of my maternal grandmother's death. 
published: true
category: life
---

The night before my 7AM flight to Seattle, my sister and I video calling my paternal grandparents in my mom's cavernous bedroom, my mom walks in and slides into bed with us. "She's gone," she says, referencing her mother and my grandma who has spent the last 72 hours in the hospital in critical care. We collapse into a pile of bodies. Sister cries--really cries--and we all mourn together in our different ways. We've lost a pillar of reality, our 90-year-old materiach who raised a tribe of 6 children who raised 10(?) grandchildren, all out of the tough soils of communist China.

-

The last decade has brought a tenderness out of my dad, one that I rarely see but my mom has referenced often.

"I tried calling your mom, and then you and you didn't up," he says, the moment Sister answers her ringing phone. 

Then, without segue, "I'm thinking--I'm thinking to go over now," he says. He's probably sitting in bed on his Saturday morning and plans this unexpected 8-hour drive. "I've got two teleconferences Tuesday morning, but I can make it work.

"Or," he considers, "I'll tell them I have a family matter, and they'll live with that."

A younger version of me would have heard this exchange and felt my dad was being callous. No check in. All logistics. Maybe she would have been right. But now, I can feel how much is being unsaid between my parents, after so many decades, at least 2 living mostly apart and on opposite sides of the world. 

"Hey, also flowers," my mom says. "Can we help with the flowers?"

"I'll check," says my dad. "Ok, I'll start to drive over."

"Are you starting the drive now?" she asks, unneccessarily.

"Yes, no reason to wait."

"Drive safe."

-

I'm so thankful I was able to see my grandma in the fall of 2019. Probably one of the final windows before COVID blossomed in Wuhan, and then the world. I don't have regrets about our relationship. We never learned to communicate with each other, her dialect of Mandarin so far from standard that it was basically a different language. I visited every 2-3 years and would never spend more than a few nights with my mom's side of the family. 

But, my grandma was a busy person with a full life. She had some of her children she liked more, some grandchildren she knew better. My mom and my grandmother were close, even though my mom left home for America before she turned 20. "People were envious of my mom. They'd point at my and say 'There goes _the college student_,'" my mom said, quoting the residents of her village. "I was the only one back then. And in our whole family, I can count at least 5 who went to Zhe Da--at least a top 5 school in China. And you--Princeton!"

So, I don't think my grandma ever looked back and regretted not having more time with me, and I'll do the same. She lived a happy, full life, and died suddenly at the end, surrounded by family. I can only hope for the same. 
