---
title: "Taking Stock, 2020"
date: 2020-10-10 00:00:00
description: Looking back one year from within the pandemic
published: true
category: life
---

A year ago from this day, I spent $30.?? to renew this domain. An annual tax I pay to my dream of becoming a writer. It's also my first offering of the year to the creative gods, who watch over my annual pilgrimage of blogging. 

A year ago, things were much different. We just got back from Indonesia, we were in the final stretch of house renovations. We had a string of guests coming in December. I was starting to dream of a life in 2020.

Let's take stock.

Goals, 2020:
1. (half check) Work on myself - body, mental health. 2020 was a disaster for both. In some ways I spent the year in a worsening decline (like everyone), but also maybe need to go through some darkness and ego death before I come out the other end. 
2. (check) Finishing touches on the house. We have a real master, with an amazing outdoor deck hangout area. 2 built out offices, one for each busy bee. Bomb ass kitchen setup for all the dinners with friends that aren't happening. 
3. (check) Raise my income to 150k+ in a year, just to prove that I can. And now that I have, life doesn't look too different from before. The next milestone here is probably 350k+, and that needs a whole different strategy. 
4. (check) Get Gouda a dog. 
5. (no check) Convert to Judaism.
6. (no check) Plan a wedding.

And so many more things happened this year that I am proud of and didn't expect
7. Manchego is a complete delight even with no training. He's a happy, boisterous boy and I love him with my whole heart (although I'll always relate more to our sensitive, delicate Gouda). 
8. Be handy one in the house - fix window springs, toilet leaks, instal gas fire pits, mount bookshelves, assemble (and then disassemble) treadmills.
9. Come to enjoy longform television again (really just anything longer than 10min YT videos).
10. Prioritize my mom, spend a month with her and really just having the best time being two adults together with so much shared history. 

Goals, 2021 (wip)
1. As always.... work on myself - body, mental health. In 2020, many people have worsened, all of us changed and some people have thrived. There is an important lesson in these crazy times, that there is a need to slow down and introspect. To learn how to be in your own company, because even if you have someone in these times, you'll drive each other nuts if that's your only society. Be your own society.
2. Drop my income to $0, and keep it there past the end of 2021. Work will always be there, I believe. I cannot bear living in fear any longer. In every facet of my life, I am hounded by fear and anxieties. Let's at least start with writing. 
3. Convert to Judaism. (carryover)
4. Plan a wedding. (carryover)
5. Grow a garden! This is a new one. Pandemic gardening has been such a pleasure. Once the grass is all grown in, I'm going to fence off the garden and grow some vegetables. I'm thinking leeks, green onions, chives and mixed peppers -- all through the year. 
